# JEP-0002 - JellyPy Organization Definition

| JEP           | 1                               |
|---------------|---------------------------------|
| title         | JellyPy Organization Definition |
| author(s)     | Kim Brugger                     |
| contact email | kim.brugger@addenbrookes.nhs.uk |
| date-creation | 2018-03-19                      |
| type          | process                         |
| discussion    | Unavailable                     |
| status        | discussion                      |

# Abstract
The JellyPy organization currently lacks a formal organization
structure. This proposal defines the JellyPy organization which manages
the code and related properties (e.g. docs, website, etc.)

# Detailed Description
The organization of JellyPy is modeled on that usually adopted by
non-profit organizations (e.g.
[501c](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/501(c)_organization). This
organization structure is tried and tested and has the added advantage
that it should provide a smooth transition to incorporating a JellyPy
foundation if it becomes necessary in the future (e.g. for funding
purposes). The primary role of the organization is to *facilitate and
promote the use and development of community-led, free and
open-source solar data-analysis software based on the scientific
Python environment*. This includes but is not limited to the following
tasks

* developing the JellyPy software library
* manage and protect the JellyPy brand and identity
* promote JellyPy to the community
* managing JellyPy assets, i.e. github account, domain name etc.

The organization consists of an executive director, a board, and the
developer community. The goal of the proposed structure to provide and
promote community input into the project.

## Board of Directors
The primary function of the board is to elect an executive director as
well as review and vote on proposed JEPs. JEPs are the primary
mechanism through which all major changes to JellyPy both the
organization and the codebase are proposed and accepted.

* **Membership Limit**: The board shall consist of at least 5 members
and no more than 10 members. Within these limits, the board may
increase or decrease the number of directors serving on the board,
including for the purpose of staggering the terms of members.

* **Term Length**: All members shall be elected to serve a maximum of
a two-year term, however the term may be extended until a successor
has been elected. A member may be re-elected at the end of their term.

* **Staggering**: Members terms shall be staggered so that
approximately half the number of members will end their terms in any
given year.

* The term of office shall be considered to begin January 1 and end
December 31 of the second year in office, unless the term is extended
until such time as a successor has been elected.

* **Vacancies**: The board may fill vacancies or may appoint new
members to fill a previously unfilled board position, subject to the
maximum number of directors under these Bylaws.  Known upcoming
vacancies shall be advertised no less than 4 months before the vacancy
become available.  Unanticipated vacancies shall be advertised as soon
possible.  All vacancies shall be advertised to the community via the
appropriate mailing lists, newsletters and webpages and other
communication channels.  The board shall fill vacancies as soon as
possible.

* **Removal**: A member may be removed by a two-thirds majority vote
of the full board, if (a) the member is absent and unexcused from 50%
or more meetings of the board in a twelve month period.  The board
chair is empowered to excuse members from attendance for a reason
deemed adequate by the board chair. The chair shall not have the power
to excuse him/herself from the board meeting attendance and in that
case, the board vice chair shall excuse the chair. Or (b) for cause or
no cause, if before any meeting of the board at which a vote on
removal will be made the director in question is given electronic or
written notification of the board’s intention to discuss her/his case
and is given the opportunity to be heard at a meeting of the board.

* **Quorum**:  A strict majority (>50%) of the members shall
constitute a quorum for a meeting of the board. No business shall be
considered by the board at any meeting at which a quorum is not
present.

* **Majority Vote**:  Except as otherwise specified the act of the
majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is
present shall be the act of the board.

* **Absentee Voting**:  Voting by proxy is not allowed.
An act of the board may allow for a vote to take place by correspondence
(e.g., email). A time window of at least a week must be provided for votes to
be cast and a quorum will be defined by the number of votes cast.

* **Hung Board Decisions**: On the occasion of a tie, the board chair
or vice-chair in the order of presence shall have the power to swing
the vote based on his/her discretion.

* **Regular Meetings**:  The board shall have at least a meeting every
quarter at times and places fixed by the board. Board meetings shall
provide at least one week (7) days notice. Notice of meetings shall
specify the place, day, and hour of meeting. The purpose of the
meeting need not be specified.

* **Extra Meetings**:  Extra meetings of the board may be called by
the chair or vice-chair or any two (2) members of the board.  A
special meeting must be preceded by at least 7 days notice to each
member of the date, time, and place, but not the purpose, of the
meeting.

* **Board officers**: The officers of the board shall be a board
chair, vice-chair, and secretary, all of whom shall be chosen by, and
serve at the pleasure of, the board. Officers shall serve one year
terms and can serve consecutive terms.

* **Board Chair**: The board chair shall lead the board in performing
its duties and responsibilities, including, if present, leading all
meetings of the board, and shall perform all other duties incident to
the office or properly required by the board.

* **Vice-chair**: In the absence of the board chair, the vice-chair
shall perform the duties of the board chair. When so acting, the
vice-chair shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the
restrictions upon the board chair.

* **Secretary**: The secretary shall be responsible for keeping the
minutes of all meetings and actions of board.  The minutes of each
meeting shall state the time and place that it was held, the members
present, and such other information as shall be necessary to determine
the actions taken and whether the meeting was held in accordance with
the law and these Bylaws.

* **Executive Director**: The board shall select an executive director
(ED). The ED cannot also serve as the board chair or vice-chair. The
ED may also be a member of the board though this is not required. The
ED shall serve a one year term, and can be re-elected.

## The Executive Director
The role of the executive director is to manage the day to day
operations of the JellyPy organization. The executive director (ED for
short) shall:

* hold regular meetings with the developer community (at least monthly)
* make regular reports to the board (at least quarterly)
* have push privileges to the JellyPy repository and can delegate those privileges
* have ownership privileges to the JellyPy GitHub organization
* create and maintain the JellyPy code of conduct (see below)

The current Executive Director is named in JEP-0006.

### Code of Conduct

The JellyPy organization shall have an explicit code of conduct to state
the norms of peer interactions, including inclusiveness and respect,
and describe the process for dispute resolution.
The code of conduct shall be publicly posted on the JellyPy website.
The code of conduct shall be accessible in such
a manner as to welcome and incorporate feedback from the developer
community, even anonymous feedback.

## The Advisory Board
The board or executive director may appoint an advisory board to
advise the board and executive director.

# Board Members

For an up to date list of board members, and their term expiry dates
see JEP-0-002.

## References
* http://form1023.org/how-to-draft-nonprofit-bylaws-with-examples
* http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0001/#pep-review-resolution

# Decision Rationale
