# JEP-0-000 - JEP Purpose and Guidelines

| JEP           | 0                                |
|---------------|----------------------------------|
| title         | JEP Purpose and Guidelines       |
| author(s)     | Kim Brugger                      |
| contact email | kim.brugger@addenbrookes.nhs.uk  |
| date-creation | 2018-03-19                       |
| type          | process                          |
| discussion    | none                             |
| status        | discussion                       |

# What is a JEP?
JEP stands for JellyPy Enhancement Proposal. A JEP is a design document modeled after the Python Enhancement Proposal which describes a new JellyPy feature, process, or major changes to existing processes or features.
The purpose of the document is to present a concise technical specification and rationale for the new feature or change. *Anyone* can submit an JEP.

Changes that typically require a JEP
* major new features in JellyPy
* major changes to the user-facing API
* major refactoring of the backend

Changes that do not typically require a JEP
* the addition of new 3rd party tools
* bug fixes
* minor enhancements

# JEP Types
There are generally three types of JEP.

* **Standard**: This JEP introduces and describes a new feature or changes to an existing feature (e.g. API change). The purpose of this type of JEP is to be at first a proposal and eventually mature into a design document (if accepted). It is generally a good idea for a Standard JEP to come _before_ any code has been written.

* **Process**: This type of JEP describes a new process or a change to an existing process in the management of the JellyPy project. Examples include procedures, guidelines, changes to the JellyPy decision-making process or management structure, and changes to the tools or environment used in JellyPy. Any meta-JEP (proposed changes to the JEP process) is also considered a Process JEP.

* **Informational**: This JEP provides information and does not introduce any new features or changes nor describes a new process.

# JEP Workflow

## Creation
JEPs should contain a concise description of a single new idea or proposal. JEPs are generally not necessary for small enhancements through a JEP may sometimes be requested by the JellyPy board in some cases even for small changes. A JEP begins its life as a proposal. Legibility, organization, and focus are key features of a successful JEP. JEPs can be rejected out-right if they lack any of those characteristics. All JEPs must identify a champion (usually the author) whose job it is to present and defend the proposal. It is generally a good idea to discuss the new idea with the community and the board before going to the trouble of writing a JEP in order to gauge general opinion however, it is not required. All JEPs will have a JellyPy board member assigned to them.

All JEPs creators should begin with the JEP template which is stored as JEP-template.md. All JEPs are stored in the JellyPy/JellyPy-JEP repository. Fork the repo and create a new file with your JEP. JEP are written with markdown.

### Amending a JEP
If a topic is already covered by an existing JEP and the change is not a major one than it is appropriate to propose an amendment to an existing JEP. All the usual rules apply and processes apply to the amendment of a JEP as for the creation of a new JEP.

## Submission
All new JEP should be submitted into the JellyPy/JellyPy-JEP repository by pull request.

## Review Process
Once an JEP is submitted it will be discussed via normal development channels, primarily the JellyPy-dev mailing list. The JellyPy board is tasked with making the final decision although in general community consensus is enough. Once an JEP is accepted, its implementation can be reviewed through the usual process. Once the implementation is complete and accepted the status of the JEP shall be changed to implemented. A member of the JellyPy board may request that a change to JellyPy (e.g. Pull Request) requires an JEP to enable the change to be documented, and discussed and reviewed by the community.

New JEPs currently undergoing discussion are pull requests into the JellyPy/JEP repository. Discussions about the JEP shall take place primarily using a JellyPy mailing list, which should be linked from the JEP. Once a JEP is officially submitted by pull request a JellyPy editor must be assigned by the JellyPy board. This is generally the job of the JellyPy board sponsor but this role can be delegated. The role of the editor is to aid the submitter and make sure that the JEP follows the accepted standard. The author and editor can be the same person. A JEP must be accepted by a majority of the JellyPy board. The status of a JEP can be any of the following

* **Discussion**: This means that JEP is currently being considered and a decision has not been made.
* **Accepted**: The JEP has been accepted and it will be assigned a number and merged into the JellyPy-JEP repository. A decision rationale must be drafted and added to the JEP by the JellyPy board sponsor. If the JEP is of the Standard type then it can now be implemented.
* **Implemented**: Only valid for a Standard JEP. This status means that the feature discussed in the JEP is implemented and has been merged into the main JellyPy repository. At least X members of the JellyPy board must sign off on implementation for it to be accepted.
* **Rejected**: The JEP has been rejected. A decision rationale should be provided by the board and the JEP should still be assigned a number and merged in order to close the issue. It should be noted that a future JEP can supersede the decision.

# JEP Template
Also stored in JEP-template.md

# JEP-num -- JEP Title

| JEP           | num |
|---------------|---|
| title         | JEP Title |
| author(s)     | First Last, First Last |
| contact email | me@myemail.org |
| date-creation | YYYY-MM-DD |
| type          | process, standard, informational |
| status        | discussiom, accepted, rejected |
| discussion    | link to discussion if available |

# Introduction
A short description of the JEP including a statement of the problem the JEP is seeking to solve

# Detailed Description
If this is a standard JEP this section should contain usage examples.

# Decision Rationale
This is a great idea because...
