# JEP-0004 - Packages Affiliated with the JellyPy Project

| JEP           | 4                                            |
|---------------|----------------------------------------------|
| title         | Packages Affiliated with the JellyPy Project |
| author(s)     | Kim Brugger                                  |
| contact email |                                              |
| date-creation |                                              |
| type          | process                                      |
| status        | discussion                                   |

# Introduction
This JEP specifies the formal relationship between the JellyPy project and
software packages affiliated with the JellyPy project, but not directly managed
by it. These "Affiliated Packages" are registered with the JellyPy
Project to benefit from the publicity and support available within the JellyPy
community, while maintaining their independence and control over the package.
It is allowed, but not required or expected, that an affiliate package
(or part thereof) could be merged into the core JellyPy library, following the
normal procedures, once it has matured.


# Detailed Description
As a community-driven project JellyPy encourages contributions from a diverse
group of people on a wide range of software. Not all solar physics software
falls within the remit of the core JellyPy library, and some software developers
may wish to maintain a degree of control over their software than it being part
of the core library would afford them.
Both of these reasons provide motivation for software which is associated with
JellyPy but not contained within the core library. Having an association with
JellyPy will provide advantages to these packages, such as the knowledge of the
JellyPy community and the publicity provided by JellyPy, while also allowing the
whole JellyPy ecosystem to grow and provide useful tools to a larger audience.

## Requirements for Affiliated Packages

The JellyPy project therefore maintains a list of "Affiliated Packages",
which is a software package that has registered with the JellyPy board and been
accepted as an affiliated package. There are certain requirements for a package
to qualify as an affiliated package:

* The package must make use of all appropriate features in the core JellyPy
library, to reduce code duplication and complexity.
* The software must provide documentation that explains the function and use of
the package, and this documentation should be of comparable standard to the
core JellyPy library.
* The code should as far as possible provide an easy to run test suite to
verify the correct operation of the package.
* The developers of an affiliated package should engage with the rest of the
JellyPy community to encourage knowledge and code sharing within the community.

There is also the provision for the JellyPy board to accept an affiliated package
provisionally, this applies when the package currently does not fulfill the
requirements laid out above, but are working towards compliance with them.

## Registering an Affiliated Package

To register an affiliated package contact the chair of the JellyPy board, or
another board member, who will propose your package to the board who will then
make a decision on your package. Contact details for the board are available on
the main website.

Under appropriate circumstances and at the discretion of the board
an affiliated package can be removed from the registry, provided a
reason is given.

## List of Affiliated Packages

A list of the affiliated packages will be kept in a publically avaliable location.
This list shall contain links to the source code, any website
associated with the package and contact details of the maintainer of the package.
There will be a list of packages maintained on the www.sunpy.org website,
which shall provide information to users about the affiliated packages.

## Packaging Affiliated Packages

To make it easier for developers to maintain affiliated packages a package
template will be provided. This will allow package maintainers to not have to
worry about Python packaging and documentation / testing infrastructure, and
concentrate on the development of their package.
This template will provide a package which is laid out and behaves much like
the core JellyPy library.


# Decision Rationale
